Now we're gonna build a pretty simple template.
So what we first need to do is import react from react.
And we're also going to import in graph Q Well from Gatsby because we need to make a request for the
actual markdown.
We're also going to import the layout from our components.
Now if you're curious why this template is not in our components folder.
The reason is because this template is not a component that we actually use in the application.
Any application files we keep inside of our components but anything that we use to actually build out
are blog posts or any other templates that we dynamically generate in our Gatsby note we're just going
to put here instead what we're going to export as the default is going to be this new function where
we get the data because we know what we're going to want to pluck off is the markdown the actual graph
Q all that we need is going to be this query.
Now what we want to query for is the individual markdown remark related to these slug that we get we're
actually going to get that slug manually by passing in it as a parameter that our graph cool will use.
So I'm gonna show you what the graph Q all looks like and then when we go back to our Gatsby no Jess
you're gonna see how we pass that.
So essentially we're gonna have our query and it's going to receive this parameter called slug that's
gonna be a string and it's always going to be mandatory.
Now what we're going to get back is a markdown remark where what we're looking for is we want to match
this fields here to the slug value.
Right.
And we want it to be equal to the slug parameter that we pass in.
So if you're unfamiliar with graph Q all this is the syntax of writing a query essentially we're specifying
that I want you to match this field on our markdown remark where the slug is equivalent to this slug
string that we pass in here.
Now we can actually test to see if this query works first and we can do it inside of our graph QoL playground.
So let's just get rid of our initial query for all markdown remarks and what we're going to request
for is simply a markdown remark.
And inside here we see that what we did was we checked for the fields we checked for the slug and we
checked that it was equal to some string.
So in this case the string that we're matching will be either ice cream or my first block.
And now whenever this logs I also want to make sure that I get the I.D. And I want the fields as well.
And I also want the slug here.
So now if I do this I see that I'm fetching for exactly the markdown that matched the ice cream slug
to this string which was our ice cream markdown.
So that's really what we're doing here.
So what we're doing is we are getting that markdown.
And what we want to plug off of it is the H Timo we want the front matter and we want the title so with
this we now have the data that we need and what we're going to do is we are going to set the post itself
equal to data dot markdown remark.
So now we have access to the markdown remark object and what we're going to return is our layout component
wrapping around some div that holds inside of it in H2 or an H1.
Let's do an H1 actually
and as you can guess we're going to do post dot front matter
and then for a div This is where we're actually going to populate the div with our H2 mail.
So we're going to use a react method called dangerously set in our H to mail.
This is the preferred way of actually setting this value.
So I know it says dangerously set this is because in typical reactor you don't want to do this but in
Gatsby this is perfectly fine because it's not dynamically generated.
This is statically set so underscore underscore H2 AML is the value and we want post HDL.
So we want to use the HDL value here.
And what this will do is this will set all of the H small value inside of this div so with this we have
our blog post template.
So let's go back to our Gatsby no J.S. file and inside of our create pages that we were had before.
We are going to now pass the component.
Now this component is expecting a relative path.
So we actually have to build it using the path variable that we get by default from the path library
that comes with every single No just file so we're gonna pass in path and we're gonna say path dot resolve.
And what we're going to say is dot slash source.
So I want to go from the route down to the source folder into templates using our blog.
Now in order for us to pass the actual slug value to this query we pass it through this context object
and here we're gonna give the slug equal to our no def fields dot slug.
So now this will know that when it runs create pages what it's going to do is it's going to create the
page calling graph Q Well using every single markdown remark it's going to loop through every single
markdown file that we have and it's going to manually create a new page for it using that new blog post
template but now we have our new create pages method there's actually a typo here.
This actually should be ass.
In fact let's just double check our blog post to make sure that we're not doing anything wrong.
Oh it looks like I actually used the wrong parentheses here.
So let's just fix that as well when I make sure we're turning with round brackets.
OK.
So now let's restart our server
so let's just wait for our server to finish building OK.
So now that we're finished building let's actually see if our pages have generated.
So let's go to local host a thousand and let's just navigate to our pages.
So the first is ice cream and we see that we have it.
And our second is my first Amy and here we see that this also works.
So we now have our dynamic Bill pages using our markdowns.
If we write any new markdowns to our pages not only is that going to add to our index but we're going
to generate a new page for it.
So this is awesome because now we've pretty much got a dynamically structured and building blog without
us having to add any more code other than some styling if we want to or new features.
But as far as it goes in terms of adding new blog posts this is pretty much done.
One other thing that we're going to do is we actually probably should reverse the order of this listing
because right now it's listing the earliest dates first versus listing the latest dates as the newest
things.
So we can do all this in the next lesson.